Subject: Announcing: The GOSSIP Simulation Environment
Newsgroups: comp.simulation, comp.dsp, comp.lang.scheme
To: guile@sourceware.cygnus.com, gossip-general@lists.sourceforge.net

I'm happy to announce that the GOSSIP project is now hosted on
SourceForge and thus is easily accessible to the general public, with
all the things you expect from such a project: anonymous CVS, mailing
lists, bug tracking, etc.  Go to:

    http://gossip.sourceforge.net

Excerpts from that page:

    The goal of the GOSSIP project is to develop and maintain a
    simulation environment for use primarily in communications
    engineering and digital signal processing.  It will be implemented
    as an extension to Guile, the Scheme implementation of the FSF.

    The project consists of multiple parts:

    * gossip-sim, the simulation engine, in its first version only for
      synchronous data flow.

    * gossip-lib-*, libraries of useful simulation blocks.

    * gossip-ed, the schematic capture tool, using Gtk+ and guile-gtk.

    * gossip-vhdl, extends gossip-sim to be able to read VHDL files,
      using code from FreeHDL.

    The primary simulation description will be textual, by writing
    Scheme programs that are executed by gossip-sim.  Gossip-sim
    supports a hierarchical description and gossip-ed will be able to
    produce such hierarchical blocks from interactive graphical input.

    As of now, the gossip-sim part is useable and nearly feature
    complete for its 1.0 release, but the other parts hardly exist.
    Documentation for gossip-sim is nearly complete, as well.

    GOSSIP right now is and should remain a fairly simple but yet
    powerful tool.  It should not be a research platform for
    simulation techniques.  The original author is no specialist in
    simulation techniques anyway and would welcome constructive
    comments about the existing simulation engine.

GOSSIP has been developed on and off during the recent years without
`going public' with it.  I think it is now in a state that more people
can benefit from it and, equally important, I think that GOSSIP now
can benefit from more people working on it.

Yesterday, gossip-sim has made its first alpha release (0.8.0).  I
hope that people will find it useful and promising enough to want to
hack on it themselves.

Have fun!

- Marius
